OneAudit Notes
https://www.github.com/pbstark/ONEAudit.

Card 	“ballot card” means a sheet of paper; a ballot comprises one or more cards.
CVR	“cast-vote record” is the voting system’s interpretation of the votes on a particular card.
MVR	"manual-vote record” is the auditors’ reading of the votes on a card

BPA	    "ballot-polling RLA"s examine individual randomly selected cards but do not use
	    data from the voting system other than the totals;
BLCA 	"batch-level comparison RLA"s compare reported vote subtotals for randomly selected batches
	    of cards (e.g., all cards cast in a precinct) to manual tabulations of the same batches
CLCA	"card-level comparison RLA"s compare individual CVRs to the corresponding MVRs for a random sample of cards
hybrid  combine two or more of the approaches above.

1. Introduction

This paper shows that applying CLCA to any combination of CVRs provided
by the voting system and CVRs created by the auditors to match batch subtotals
or contest totals gives a valid RLA. When the CVRs are derived entirely from
contest totals, the method is algebraically equivalent to BPA. When the CVRs
are derived from batch subtotals, the method is far more efficient than BLCA
and approaches the efficiency of ‘pure’ CLCA when the batches are sufficiently
homogeneous. (so this is an improved version of batch auditing)

Options for heterogeneous elections:
– give up the efficiency of CLCA (card-level comparison RLAs) and use BPA (batch polling audits)
– hybrid RLAs that use different audit strategies in different strata [SUITE,SHANGRLA,ALPHA,SWEETER]
– BLCA (batch-level comparison RLAs) using weighted random samples [SuperSimple,CORLA,SUITE]
– CLCA that rescans some or all of the cards to create linked CVRs the voting system did not originally provide
– CLCA using cryptographic nonces to link CVRs to cards without compromising voter privacy (Noncesuch)

Section 4 develops a simpler approach that in examples is more efficient than
a hybrid audit or BLCA, works even when a BCLA is impracticable, avoids
the expense of re-scanning any ballots, and does not require new or additional equipment.

2. Testing net overstatement does not require CVRs linked to ballot cards

2.1 Warmup: 2-candidate plurality contest

Let bi = 1 if card i has a vote for Alice, −1 if it has a vote for Bob, and 0 otherwise
Let ci = 1 if card i was counted by the voting system as a vote for Alice, −1 if it was counted as a vote for Bob, 0 otherwise
The overstatement of the margin on the ith card is ci − bi ∈ {−2, −1, 0, 1, 2}
It is the number of votes by which the voting system exaggerated the number of votes for Alice. 
The true margin is Sum(bi) and the reported margin is Sum(ci)

Alice really won if the net overstatement of the margin E({ci }) = Sum(ci - bi) < reported margin Sum(ci)

If {ci} and {ci′} are any two sets of CVRs for which Sum(ci) = Sum(ci'), then E({ci}) = E({ci′})
	they are overstatement net equivalent (ONE).
	Thus, we can conduct a CLCA using any set {c′i} of CVRs that reproduces the contest-level results

If the voting system reports CVRs for some individual ballot cards, we can conduct a CLCA that uses those CVRs, augmented by ONE CVRs for the remaining ballot cards (derived from batch subtotals or from contest totals, by subtraction).

2.2 Numerical example

Consider a contest in which 20,000 cards were cast in all, of which 10,000 were cast by mail and have linked CVRs,
with 5,000 votes for Alice, 4,000 for Bob, and 1,000 undervotes.

The other 10,000 cards were cast in 10 precincts, 1,000 cards in each. Net across those 10 precincts, Alice and Bob
each got 5,000 votes. In 5 precincts, Alice showed more votes than Bob; in the other 5, Bob showed more than Alice.

The reported results are thus 10,000 votes for Alice, 9,000 for Bob, and 1,000 undervotes.
The margin is 1,000 votes; the diluted margin (margin in votes, divided by cards cast) is 1000/20000 = 5%.

(A)
Consider two sets of precinct subtotals:
  1. 5 precincts show 900 votes for Alice and 100 for Bob; the other 5 show 900 votes for Bob and 100 for Alice.
  2. 5 precincts show 990 votes for Alice and 10 for Bob; the other 5 show 990 votes for Bob and 10 for Alice.

  Construct ONE CVRs for the 10,000 cards cast in the 10 precincts as follows:
  If the precinct reports a votes for Alice and 1000 − a for Bob, the net vote for Alice is a − (1000 − a) = 2a − 1000.
  The “average” CVR for the precinct has (2a − 1000)/1000 = 2a/1000 − 1 votes for Alice; that is the ONEAudit CVR for
  every card in the precinct.

  For instance, a precinct that reported 900 votes for Alice and 100 for Bob has a net margin of 900 × 1 + 100 × −1 = 800 for Alice,
  so that precinct contributes 1,000 ONE CVRs, each with ci = (0.9) × 1 + (0.1) × (−1) = 0.8 votes for Alice.

(B)
  To audit, draw ballot cards uniformly at random, without replacement. To find the overstatement for each audited card,
  subtract the MVR for the card (-1, 0, or 1)
     1) from the CVR (-1, 0, or 1) if the system provided one,
  or 2) from the ONE CVR for its precinct (a number in [−1, 1]) if the system did not provide a CVR.

If there had been a CVR for
every card and the results were exactly correct, the sample size for a standard
CLCA with risk limit 5% would be about 125 cards. A BPA at risk limit 5%
would examine about 2,300 cards. A BLCA (treating individual cards as batches
for those with CVRs) using sampling with probability proportional to an error
bound and the Kaplan-Markov test [21] would examine about 7250 cards on
average in the 900/100 scenario and 5300 in the 990/10 scenario. For ONEAudit,
the expected sample size is about 800 cards in the 900/100 scenario and 170 in
the 990/10 scenario. As preferences within precincts become more homogeneous,
ONEAudit approaches the efficiency of CLCA.

2.3 The general case

(For auditing IRV using RAIRE [4], CVRs are generally required to construct an appropriate
 set of assorters and to find their margins—but the CVRs do not have to be
 linked to individual ballot cards.)

Let bi denote the true votes on the ith ballot card; there are N cards in
all. Let ci denote the voting system’s interpretation of the ith card.

Suppose we have a CVR ci for every ballot card whose index i is in C. The cardinality of C is
|C|. Ballot cards not in C are partitioned into G ≥ 1 disjoint groups {G}, g=1..G
which reported assorter subtotals are available.

See paper for math showing "using a “mean CVR” for the batch is overstatement-net-equivalent to any CVRs that
give the same assorter batch subtotals."

So each ballot is assigned a group with assorter value computed as in (A),
When a ballot is selected to sample, auditors have to find it and create an MVR for it.
The cassort value is computed as in (B).

3. Auditing using batch subtotals (oa-batch)

Also see in oa_batch.ipynb
	## Kaplan-Markov batch-level comparison using PPEB
	# Georgia 2022 audit
	# California 2020
	## Stem Cell Research Institute Bond Initiative (CA Prop 14)

BLCAs have two logistical hurdles: (i) They require manually tabulating the votes on every ballot card in the batches
selected for audit. (ii) When the batches of cards for which the voting system reports subtotals do not correspond to
identifiable physical batches (common for vote-by-mail and vote centers), the audit has to find and retrieve every card
in the audited reporting batches.

Both can be avoided using CLCA with ONE CVRs. The following algorithm gives a valid RLA, but selects and compares the
manual interpretation of individual cards to the implied “average” CVR of the reporting batch each card belongs to. (See Algorithm)

Algorithm for a CLCA using ONE CVRs from batch subtotals. THis is apparently the algorithm one uses for the ONECVR part
of a heterogeneous audit. Unfortunately not spelled out in Section 4.
...
5. Calculate the reported mean assorter values for each reporting batch; these are the ONE CVRs.
6. While any measured risk is greater than its risk limit and not every card has been audited:
– Select a card at random, e.g., by selecting a batch at random with probability proportional to the size of the batch,
then selecting a card uniformly at random from the batch using the k-cut method [14], or by selecting at random from the
entire collection of cards.
– Calculate the overstatement for the selected card using the ONE CVR for the reporting batch the card belongs to.
– Update the measured risk of any assertion whose measured risk is still greater than its risk limit.

3.1 Numerical case studies
Table 3. Actual and estimated expected sample sizes for various RLA methods


4 Auditing heterogenous voting systems (oa-polling)

When the voting system can report linked CVRs for some but not all cards,
we can augment the voting system’s linked CVRs with ONE CVRs for the remaining cards, then use CLCA.

The ONE CVRs can be derived from overall contest results or from reported subtotals, e.g., precinct subtotals.
Finer-grained subtotals generally give smaller audit sample sizes (when the reported outcome is correct)
if the smaller groups are more homogeneous than the overall election.

Compare this method with Suite (Table 5).
                    PF*     SD      90th percentile
SUITE               0.037   n/a     n/a
ALPHA PF∗           0.018   0.002   0.019
ALPHA PM*           0.003   0.000   0.003
EmpBernstein PF∗    0.348   0.042   0.390
EmpBernstein PM∗    0.420   0.134   0.561
ALPHA ONEAudit      0.020   0.010   0.032

Table 5. P-values for the 2018 RLA pilot in Kalamazoo, MI, for different risk-measuring functions.
Rows 2–5 are from Sweeter, Table 3.
ALPHA and Empirical Bernstein stratumwise supermartingales combined
using either Fisher’s combining function (PF∗) or multiplication (PM*)

5 Sample sizes for contest-level ONE CLCA vs. BPA. Maybe this is about oa-batch, not oa-polling?

5.1 Theory
the statistical tests used in RLAs are not affine equivariant because
they rely on a priori bounds on the assorter values.

5.2 Numerical comparison

Table 6. Geometric mean of the ratios of sample sizes to the smallest sample size for each condition described above.

Transforming the assorter into an overstatement assorter using the ONEAudit transformation, then testing whether the
mean of the resulting population is ≤ 1/2 using the ALPHA test martingale with the truncated shrinkage estimator of [22]
with d = 10 and η between 0.505 and 0.55 performed comparably to—but slightly worse than using ALPHA on the raw assorter
 values for the same d and η, and within 4.8% of the overall performance of the best-performing method.

6. Conclusions

ONE CVRs let audits use batch-level data far more efficiently than traditional batch-level comparison RLAs (BLCAs) do.
If batches are sufficiently homogeneous, the workload approaches that of “pure” CLCA using linked CVRs from the voting system.

ONE CVRs also can obviate the need to stratify, to rescan cards, or to use “hybrid” audits when the voting system cannot
export a linked CVR for every card. ONEAudit better than previous hybrid/stratification audots.

Also see in oa_polling.ipynb
	## Kalamazoo replication